# **FINAL PROJECT**
# **Capstone project: Providing data-driven suggestions for HR**
This capstone project is an opportunity for me to analyze a dataset and build predictive models that can provide insights to the Human Resources (HR) department of a large consulting firm. Upon completion, I will have two artifacts that I can present to future employers. One is a brief one-page summary of this project that I would present to external stakeholders as the data professional at Salifort Motors. The other is a complete code notebook provided here. I will consider my prior coursework and select one way to achieve this given project question. Either I'll use a regression model or a machine learning model to predict whether or not an employee will leave the company. The exemplar following this activity shows both approaches, but I only need to do one. In my deliverables, I will include the model evaluation (and interpretation if applicable), a data visualization(s) of my choice that is directly related to the question I ask, ethical considerations, and the resources I used to troubleshoot and find answers or solutions. The HR department at Salifort Motors wants to take some initiatives to improve employee satisfaction levels at the company. They collected data from employees, but now they don’t know what to do with it. My goal is to analyze the data collected by the HR department at Salifort Motors and build a model that predicts whether an employee will leave the company. By doing this, I can identify factors that contribute to their departure. Since it is both time-consuming and expensive to find, interview, and hire new employees, increasing employee retention will be beneficial to the company. Using the insights gathered from the data, I aim to provide data-driven suggestions to improve employee satisfaction levels and ultimately reduce employee turnover. The models and the feature importances extracted from the models confirm that employees at the company are overworked. To retain employees, the following recommendations could be presented to the stakeholders: cap the number of projects that employees can work on; consider promoting employees who have been with the company for at least four years, or conduct further investigation about why four-year tenured employees are so dissatisfied; either reward employees for working longer hours, or don't require them to do so; if employees aren't familiar with the company's overtime pay policies, inform them about this; if the expectations around workload and time off aren't explicit, make them clear; hold company-wide and within-team discussions to understand and address the company work culture, across the board and in specific contexts; high evaluation scores should not be reserved for employees who work 200+ hours per month; consider a proportionate scale for rewarding employees who contribute more/put in more effort. Next steps: It may be justified to still have some concern about data leakage. It could be prudent to consider how predictions change when last_evaluation is removed from the data. It's possible that evaluations aren't performed very frequently, in which case it would be useful to be able to predict employee retention without this feature. It's also possible that the evaluation score determines whether an employee leaves or stays, in which case it could be useful to pivot and try to predict performance score. The same could be said for satisfaction score.
